feat: add upgrade doc (#1701)
shopware/docs: guides/hosting/installation-updates/performing-updates.md

---
nav:
  title: Performing Shopware Updates
  position: 20

---

# Performing Shopware Updates

## When to update

> Shopware releases updates every month. It's not necessary to update every month, but you should always install the latest security patches through the [Security Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag136939272659f/shopware-6-security-plugin.html) or update Shopware itself to the latest version. To check if your Shopware version still get's security updates, you can check the [Shopware Release Cycle](https://developer.shopware.com/release-notes/). But generally speaking, the maintenance effort is the same when you wait a long period of time or update more regularly. So our recommandation would be to update from every major version to the next major version, and stay on a minor version for a longer period of time, if you don't need any new features or entcounter issues with the used version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shopware releases updates every month. It's not necessary to update every month, but you should always install the latest security patches through the [Security Plugin](https://store.shopware.com/en/swag136939272659f/shopware-6-security-plugin.html) or update Shopware itself to the latest version. To check if your Shopware version still get's security updates, you can check the [Shopware Release Cycle](https://developer.shopware.com/release-notes/). But generally speaking, the maintenance effort is the same when you wait a long period of time or update more regularly. So our recommendation would be to update from every major version to the next major version, and stay on a minor version for a longer period of time, if you don't need any new features or encounter issues with the used version.
```

The next step is to check when the update should be performed. You should always perform updates in a maintenance window to avoid any issues with customers. If you are using a staging environment, you can perform the update there first and then apply it to the production environment.

Before doing the actual update, you should create a backup of your database and files. This is important to ensure that you can restore your Shopware installation in case something goes wrong during the update process.

::: info
If blue green deployment is enabled, you can rollback to the previous version without restoring the database backup. This is only recommended when you **only updated** Shopware and not any extensions together with it.
:::

Before you start the update process, you should also make sure that you have set the Sales Channels into the maintenance mode. This can be done using the Administration or with `bin/console system:update:prepare` in the terminal.

### Use Composer to manage all extensions

> Managing all extensions through Composer, is the best way to ensure that all extensions are compatible with the new version. It simplifies the update process as Composer automatically resolves the correct versions of the extensions. It makes the 

Reviewer: > It makes the

???

### Use existing tools to automatically upgrade your extensions

There are tools like [Rector](https://github.com/FriendsOfShopware/shopware-rector) for PHP and [Codemods](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/src/Administration/Resources/app/administration/code-mods.js) for Administration JavaScript which can help you to automatically upgrade your extensions. Both tools do the most repeating tasks for you, but you still have to check the results and adapt your code if necessary. It's recommanded to use these tools, as they save you a lot of time. Make sure that your code-base is versioned with Git, so you can easily rollback the changes if necessary.

## Update types

There are two different Shopware update types:
- **Minor/Patch updates**: These are updates that only contain new features, bug fixes and security patches. They are released every month for the active supported versions.

> - **Major updates**: These updates are intended to cleanup the codebase and introduce breaking changes. They are released every 12 months.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Major updates**: These updates are intended to cleanup the codebase and introduce breaking changes. They are released once a year.
```

### Major updates

Major updates are breaking updates. They require special attention, as extensions/themes/system configurations might not be compatible with the new version.

First of all you should check that all extensions obtained from Shopware Store are compatible with the next version. You can find the compatibility information in the Update Manager in the Administration. Generally speaking, it's recommanded to update all extensions before updating Shopware itself to their latest versions, to ensure smooth transition. After updating Shopware, you should update all extensions again to ensure that you are using the latest versions to the new Shopware version.

For the Hosting environment, it makes sense to update the PHP version to the minimum required version for the new Shopware version before updating Shopware itself. Shopware versions always support a overlapping PHP version, so you can update the PHP version before updating Shopware itself. You can find the minimum required PHP version in the [System Requirements](../../installation/requirements.md).

> For custom customizations, you should check the [UPGRADE.md](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/UPGRADE-6.7.md), it contains all breaking changes and migration instructions. Mostly it's easier to update to the latest version in a local environment and take a look what is not working anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For customizations, you should check the [UPGRADE.md](https://github.com/shopware/shopware/blob/trunk/UPGRADE-6.7.md), it contains all breaking changes and migration instructions. Most of the time it's easier to update to the latest version in a local environment and take a look what is not working anymore.
```

::: info
If you can't see the info in the admin, please check if [auto_update](../installation-updates/cluster-setup#disable-auto-update) is set to false.
:::

The next step is to check when the update should be performed. You should always perform updates in a maintenance window to avoid any issues with customers. If you are using a staging environment, you can perform the update there first and then apply it to the production environment.

Before doing the actual update, you should create a backup of your database and files. This is important to ensure that you can restore your Shopware installation in case something goes wrong during the update process.

::: info
If blue-green deployment is enabled, you can rollback to the previous version without restoring the database backup. This is only recommended when you **only updated** Shopware and not any extensions together with it.
:::

> Before you start the update process, you should also make sure that you have set the Sales Channels into maintenance mode. This can be done using the Administration or with `bin/console system:update:prepare` in the terminal.

Reviewer 2: @JoshuaBehrens I added some "Final steps" at the end where the cmd is shown

https://github.com/shopware/docs/pull/1701/commits/4838a7ef5807dc395d67addd57644b19a376d940
